platform-sdk/base-apps/swirlds-base-sample/README.md, before:

# Swirlds Base Sample

## Goal

A simple enough application that utilizes platform-base modules. This application serves as a testing environment for platform-base module behavior without the need for platform and services layers.

## Overview

This project consists of a simple wallet application that provides a REST API to handle wallets, balances, and transactions. The application utilizes an Undertow HTTP server to listen to connections on the configured port and limited 3erd party dependencies.

### Dependencies

The project makes use of the following modules:

- **swirlds-config**: Module for configuration management.
- **swirlds-metrics**: Module for reporting metrics.
- **swirlds-logging**: TODO: pending

The project makes use of the following 3erd party dependencies:
- **Undertow**: embedded application server.
- **jackson**: json serializing/deserializing.
- **guava**: parameters validation + immutable collections.
- **spot-bugs**: non-null checks.
- **log4j2**: to-be-replaced in the future for swirlds-logging.

Also requires the following tools
- **docker-compose**

### Features being showcased & under test

- **Logging**: Provides logging functionality to track application behavior and errors. Currently implemented using log4j
- **Metrics Reporting**: Offers metrics reporting capabilities to monitor application performance.
- **Configuration**: Supports configuration management for easy customization.

### Prometheus Integration

The application declares predefined metrics to consume in the Prometheus endpoint. By default, the application starts on port 8000, and metrics are exposed on port 8001.

## Docker Compose

The project provides a Docker Compose file that enables the following services:

- **Swagger UI**: A user-friendly interface for interacting with the REST API. Accessible on port 8080.
- **Prometheus Server**: Consumes metrics generated by the application.
- **Grafana**: Provides visualization capabilities with a custom dashboard included.

## Usage

To use the application, follow these steps:
1. Build and run the application using `gradlew assemble`.
2. Run the app using `gradlew run`
3. Run all included docker containers using docker-compose. Go to docker folder and run `docker-compose up`
4. Access the Swagger UI for interacting with the REST API. The Swagger UI runs on `http://localhost:8080/`.
5. Example Http requests have been included in `./http-requests`.
6. Monitor metrics using the Prometheus server running on `http://localhost:9090/`.
7. Visualize metrics using Grafana on `http://localhost:3000/`.

## To Be Included

1. change log4j to swirlds-logging
2. creating a container for the java application in docker compose. use an internal network.
3. add loki and elasticsearch for logging

## Contributors

- platform-base-team

## Additional Documentation
- [Configuration](./base/configuration/configuration.md)
- [Metrics](./base/metrics/metrics.md)

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0

Commit message:

support docker-compose for java app
Signed-off-by: mxtartaglia <maxi@swirldslabs.com>

platform-sdk/base-apps/swirlds-base-sample/README.md, after:

# Swirlds Base Sample

## Goal

A simple enough application that utilizes platform-base modules. This application serves as a testing environment for platform-base module behavior without the need for platform and services layers.

## Overview

This project consists of a simple wallet application that provides a REST API to handle wallets, balances, and transactions. The application utilizes an Undertow HTTP server to listen to connections on the configured port and limited 3erd party dependencies.

### Dependencies

The project makes use of the following modules:

- **swirlds-config**: Module for configuration management.
- **swirlds-metrics**: Module for reporting metrics.
- **swirlds-logging**: TODO: pending

The project makes use of the following 3erd party dependencies:
- **Undertow**: embedded application server.
- **jackson**: json serializing/deserializing.
- **guava**: parameters validation + immutable collections.
- **spot-bugs**: non-null checks.
- **log4j2**: to-be-replaced in the future for swirlds-logging.

Also requires the following tools
- **docker-compose**

### Features being showcased & under test

- **Logging**: Provides logging functionality to track application behavior and errors. Currently implemented using log4j
- **Metrics Reporting**: Offers metrics reporting capabilities to monitor application performance.
- **Configuration**: Supports configuration management for easy customization.

### Prometheus Integration

The application declares predefined metrics to consume in the Prometheus endpoint. By default, the application starts on port 8000, and metrics are exposed on port 8001.

## Docker Compose

The project provides a Docker Compose file that enables the following services:

- **Swagger UI**: A user-friendly interface for interacting with the REST API. Accessible on port 8080.
- **Prometheus Server**: Consumes metrics generated by the application.
- **Grafana**: Provides visualization capabilities with a custom dashboard included.

## Usage

The best way to run the application is through docker-compose:
1. Build the application using `gradlew assemble`.
2. inside `./docker` folder run `docker-compose up`
4. Access the Swagger UI for interacting with the REST API. The Swagger UI runs on `http://localhost:8000/`.
6. Monitor metrics using the Prometheus server running on `http://localhost:8001/`.
7. Visualize metrics using Grafana on `http://localhost:8002/`.
5. Example Http requests have been included in `./http-requests`.

Alternatively 
1. Build the application using `gradlew assemble`.
2. Run the app using `gradlew run`
3. Run all included docker containers using docker-compose. Go to docker folder and run `docker-compose up`
4. Access the Swagger UI for interacting with the REST API. The Swagger UI runs on `http://localhost:8080/`.
5. Example Http requests have been included in `./http-requests`.
6. Monitor metrics using the Prometheus server running on `http://localhost:9090/`.
7. Visualize metrics using Grafana on `http://localhost:3000/`.

## To Be Included

1. change log4j to swirlds-logging
2. add loki and elasticsearch for logging

## Contributors

- platform-base-team

## Additional Documentation
- [Configuration](./base/configuration/configuration.md)
- [Metrics](./base/metrics/metrics.md)

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0
